Data Format
-----------

The data is an array of data series:

  [ series1, series2, ... ]

A series can either be raw data or an object with properties. The raw
data format is an array of points:

  [ [x1, y1], [x2, y2], ... ]

E.g.

  [ [1, 3], [2, 14.01], [3.5, 3.14] ]

Note that to simplify the internal logic in Flot both the x and y
values must be numbers (even if specifying time series, see below for
how to do this). This is a common problem because you might retrieve
data from the database and serialize them directly to JSON without
noticing the wrong type. If you're getting mysterious errors, double
check that you're inputting numbers and not strings.

If a null is specified as a point or if one of the coordinates is null
or couldn't be converted to a number, the point is ignored when
drawing. As a special case, a null value for lines is interpreted as a
line segment end, i.e. the points before and after the null value are
not connected.

Lines and points take two coordinates. For filled lines and bars, you
can specify a third coordinate which is the bottom of the filled
area/bar (defaults to 0).

The format of a single series object is as follows:

  {
    color: color or number
    data: rawdata
    label: string
    lines: specific lines options
    bars: specific bars options
    points: specific points options
    xaxis: number
    yaxis: number
    clickable: boolean
    hoverable: boolean
    shadowSize: number
  }

You don't have to specify any of them except the data, the rest are
options that will get default values. Typically you'd only specify
label and data, like this:

  {
    label: "y = 3",
    data: [[0, 3], [10, 3]]
  }

The label is used for the legend, if you don't specify one, the series
will not show up in the legend.

If you don't specify color, the series will get a color from the
auto-generated colors. The color is either a CSS color specification
(like "rgb(255, 100, 123)") or an integer that specifies which of
auto-generated colors to select, e.g. 0 will get color no. 0, etc.

The latter is mostly useful if you let the user add and remove series,
in which case you can hard-code the color index to prevent the colors
from jumping around between the series.

The "xaxis" and "yaxis" options specify which axis to use. The axes
are numbered from 1 (default), so { yaxis: 2} means that the series
should be plotted against the second y axis.

"clickable" and "hoverable" can be set to false to disable
interactivity for specific series if interactivity is turned on in
the plot, see below.

The rest of the options are all documented below as they are the same
as the default options passed in via the options parameter in the plot
commmand. When you specify them for a specific data series, they will
override the default options for the plot for that data series.

Here's a complete example of a simple data specification:

  [ { label: "Foo", data: [ [10, 1], [17, -14], [30, 5] ] },
    { label: "Bar", data: [ [11, 13], [19, 11], [30, -7] ] } ]
